# devon
devon is a heavy-weight tweakable block cipher designed specifically for long-term file archiving.
## Preface
This cipher algorithm is dedicated to my wonderful sister Devon who passed away in 2016. devon was developed ***for fun*** and is an accumulation of knowledge gained from researching SPN block ciphers as a hobby. All of the techniques and ideas I have thought of have been crammed into one cipher algorithm. devon is a heavy-weight tweakable block cipher designed specifically for long-term file archiving. It offers no protections against side-channel attacks, so care must be taken to ensure the machines used to encrypt archival data are secure from attackers (offline, isolated).
## Overview
devon is a 256-bit tweakable block cipher with 1024-bit master key, 9408-bit hashing key, 1024-bit initialization vector, and 512-bit tweak. It is centralized around the complex combination of 4 internal 512-bit hashes: blake2b, sha2-512, sha3-512, and whirlpool. devon is a 24-round XEX Substitution Permutation Network featuring 24 randomly-generated-filtered 16-bit S-Boxes, 24 randomly-generated-filtered P-Boxes, and (24+1)-block Class 2C key schedule. Each tweak provides 512 random bits which are xor'd before & after encryption (XEX). The 512-bit tweak is also used to randomly shuffle the 24 S-Boxes, 24 P-Boxes, 24 (of the 25) Subkeys, as well as provides 1 of 512 random rotation combinations used during the permutation stage. Essentially, the tweak is used to procedurally generate a new and unique encryption algorithm, with it's own unique S-Box, P-Box, and Subkey collection for each block, hopefully making analysis extremely difficult. 4 hashing algorithms were chosen along with a complicated code set to ensure all futuristic implementations (ASIC, FPGA, Quantum) will be resourcefully expensive in terms of gate count and energy consumption.
## Under construction, more to come soon!
